# Typical go-golang terminal (console) commands

Help article: https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/go

## mod

### Сreate a go.mod file (which specifies the module name we entered as an argument to the go mod init command)

`go mod init module-name`

`go mod init github.com/yulaymusin/go-cheatsheet`

## run

Compile temporary files and run the application.

`go run main.go`

`go run *.go`

`go run cmd/web/*.go`

## get

Getting remote packages. Two things happen after execute this command: Go downloads the source code, then executes `go install`.

### To add a dependency for a package or upgrade it to its latest version:
`go get example.com/pkg`

### To upgrade or downgrade a package to a specific version:
`go get example.com/pkg@v1.2.3`

### To remove a dependency on a module and downgrade modules that require it:
`go get example.com/mod@none`

### To upgrade the minimum required Go version to the latest released Go version:
`go get go@latest`

### To upgrade the Go toolchain to the latest patch release of the current Go toolchain:
`go get toolchain@patch`

## list

List all installed packages.

`go list`

## env

View environment variables about Go.

`go env`

## version

Get information about installed version of Go.

`go version`

## build

It will compile packages and dependencies.
If there are many files in the folder, but you just want to compile one of them, you should append the file name after `go build`. For example, `go build a.go`. `go build` will compile all the files in the folder.
The default name is your folder name (non-main package) or the first source file name (main package).
According to The [Go Programming Language Specification](https://go.dev/ref/spec), package names should be the name after the word package in the first line of your source files. It doesn't have to be the same as the folder name, and the executable file name will be your folder name by default.
`go build` ignores files whose names start with _ or ..

## clean

`go clean` cleaning files that are generated by compilers. Some files are useful for local tests, but useless for version control. Clean up these before upload a project to Github.

## fmt

### Code style. IDEs usually execute this command automatically saving source files.

`go fmt <file_name>.go`

### Use the next one instead of go fmt. It will not rewrite source files after formatting code.

`gofmt -w`

### Formats all files in directory.

`gofmt -w *.go*`

## install

Compiles all packages and generates files, then moves them to **$GOPATH/pkg** or **$GOPATH/bin**.

## test

Loads all files whose name include **_test.go** and generates test files (tests all test files by default), then prints information that looks like the following:

> ok   archive/tar   0.011s

> FAIL archive/zip   0.022s

> ok   compress/gzip 0.033s

> ...

`go help testflag` for more details.

## help

`go help <command>` to get more details.
